When I was in grease a little while ago a couple years now, I stayed in the house and my hotel was on the street called a summertime Street.
 assault on the Greek from bodiless
 But you can't guess where that street led to.
 Rachel Plato's Academy
 All right.
 So we are picking up now with one b.
 And there's a man of the next few weeks or a thought.
 And how should I start it this way that he was a biologist by training?
 Not a philosopher.
 His dad was a medical doctor Physicians King Philip Macedon. And so you can imagine lots of you know, medical kinds of talk around their dinner table.
 Not surgical instruments and stuff like that, but, you know biological things.
 When it comes to Aristotle's philosophy is very much influenced by that early concern.
 Well, then the Aristotle household household was just wants to be as a theme.
 It's not an obvious thing, but it is there. I haven't seen this life.
 I want to say something about that by life. He doesn't really mean just you know, eating and drinking and sleeping and waking up and breathing all day is 2nd, March for long term.
 Things like developmental lifespan development a butterfly caterpillar tree. It never goes the other way around even though oak trees that goes from Shore developmental idea there. I'm not developmental idea.
 is is a crucial part what's going on in his whole lot 3 but also and turn so much more concretely and turns out that concrete on still it's a lot more concrete than metaphysics is
 Which I think is one of the reasons that is so hard for young people to.
 access
 political things
 it's too remote for them. Ethics is a lot more immediate.
 And I hope you become conscious of rules and stuff like that from the time your alarm to 3.
 But things like in a group pressures and all that stuff even though they're there.
 I don't really think about them and whether or not those are good ones or anything like that until you get quite a lot older anyway.
 Is so his team's about development and I do want to say something else by way of introduction to Aristotle. I can move on to this time. Yes good. So those are the
 or say something about what I imagine happened to Aristotle and prompted his leaving NASA Macedonia. I guess it's called these days to to go stay with Play-Doh in Athens that group that group is a smaller piece of the bigger group is classification classification all the way if you haven't already noticed that there's something about classifying things about finding a things place in system.
 Or in a scheme. That is very characteristic.
 I did not what I have to imagine him at some point, you know God going through the whole biological thing and let's see where things go to Fiore's got four feet or there's hot wings or doesn't have wings. Do they have fur or feathers or skin? Okay, and if they have a skin do they think or not and then after imagine him getting us a very long time does this this classification?
 Biological classification which at the end of this particular biological story has something going on like this one at the very bottom. There are things that I've got two feet and have skin and hair at and think
 I'm stopping and saying there's something wrong with this picture.
 What's wrong with this picture?
 This diagram is a I'm trying to figure out where people belong.
 Here they were at the very bottom of something we're thinking is kind of incidental to them. But wait a minute. I'm the guy who's trying to figure stuff out.
 Drinking is an incidental. It's the most important thing or is
 so it's like I just got you. Baby erase it start all over most important differences between rational and irrational and now you take the rational side work away is whole new classification. This is a way of thinking about
 Revolution the conversion in a platonic sense
 Okay, so he was bi training about Justin and the natural consequence for a stinking is that life is a major major major scene 1 comments on Nazi trackers here in book 7 is called weakness of well, I think that says it's a serious error and explain that in due course not right. Now before anyone has anything that they wish to say about the first part of this evening. What is the major distinction between separate?
 The major difference. That's a good question. Here's how here's how I think about the difference that's religion tends to be over.
 You don't know much about arguments yet accepted. You'll see them very shortly about premise and conclusion is crucial to that whole business of argument in a religious context a God or Gods function know that they are only ever used really as premises rather than his conclusions. What that means. Is this in a kiss an argument you somebody says something in the US.
 In a religious context the idea of God.
 If it works as a premise rather than as a concluding that know me now, let me make the contrast very explicit in philosophy. God is never a premise at best. God is a conclusion. What does that mean? It means that for a philosopher everything everything is open to question. And so let's say about religion is that if you have a God and somebody says yeah. Well is there God that's not a question. You can ask in a religious context philosophers are asking that all the time. What's the evidence if there's a God or some people say
 The gutter sinkers or the religious people would say what was the world and there could be a world unless it were a god.
 Chanel dress up their big deal present what actually is a premise for them as a conclusion.
 Now the thing of the thing in philosophy is the role the status of arguments. These are sacred things and philosophy good reasons. You just want to pinions we want reasons and that means if the thing you're offering is a reason needs to be explained then you could be sure we're going to ask you a question.
 Like somebody says well, this is good because God likes it.
 The answer will be let's say cuz you must have heard this kind of thing before it says so in the Bible.
 Well, the answer will be something like this cuz it says this is God.
 And I think there's a satisfied cuz I think this is what you look you just said the same thing twice.
 That's what I think or says.
 What's the point there the point is that when you say something twice, even though it looks different but it's really the same one is not the reason for the other anymore it just saying twice and here is the big big mistake as a psychological point and it's very very everywhere in advertising.
 We're offering to hear something the more likely you are to think that's true. It doesn't become more true. Just cuz you're hurting again, even a thousand times if you hear the thing again, and again and again, you must be true cuz why I keep saying yes and couldn't people say things that are false.
 The answer is yes they can so how do you know says The Thinker how do you know it's just cuz you're hearing it again that it's true. The answer can't be because that's what I've been saying all along that doesn't count as a reason. It looks like a reason but it isn't a reason it's just saying the same thing again.
 The philosophical logical point is nothing could be a reason for itself.
 So if you're going to think about arguments you want reasons for opinions. The reason has to be something different than what it's a reason for.
 Okay question is a reason going to be another opinion.
 Yes.
 So will you not need a reason for that? Yes.
 and your point would be
 well, we just give reasons on till nobody has any more objections.
 Okay, and when will they have no more objections? I'm not talkin crazy silly objection the sensible ones.
 rational reasonable ones
 when you get to that point when something is obvious and now you'll say sure obvious to who
 cuz as long as you were talking about emotion and passion and all that stuff different things seem obvious now, there is a beauty of mathematics.
 One is one two is two two and three make five. There is no debate about that. In fact, if you just agreed then you will lose.
 Why because that's just our numbers work?
 So he take this on into the scale of religion. Nobody knows what God really is. There really is one we have different ideas. And so while you may not want to think about history call you think about the concepts of God.
 So about the major distinction between ethics and religion and if you don't understand it was too bad yet. And if you don't have faith will then you must not be what is a sort of stuff.
 Tamara rational Common Sense views of things but also really want to start with something that is really Beyond any reasonable and that is things like logical principles. The easiest one of all even write it out for you.
 A equals. Hey there send their can you just agreed with that? You would be insane?
 You don't even have to know what day it is.
 Shut up look at it because of course. It's very same thing. How could that not equal a everything is exactly what it is.
 Other is the fundamental principle.
 There are some people who will say. Thank thanks.
 So I don't want to spend a lot more time on that right now, but that the basic idea about rationality is about logic and it's a dispute ability as a content is almost all going to be just beautiful.
 principles of logic no
 no more disputable then.
 adding and subtracting
 that is to say if you disagreed with it, you're going to lose that how you know, you're going to lose weight. That's how you know of failure to perform if you disagree with the logic.
 How we feel in the logic? Of course, it's that berries and other content is is most of life is about that stuff.
 But still looking out at the fundamental idea about rationality has to do with them logical apprehension.
 Another way of saying all that is to pay attention to the structures of things as we work our way through the material and that's what I want to do right now cuz that actually just as courses on Apple stuff will do it kind of indirectly and if I remember this question along the way I'll say okay. Here's another example is the weakest of Will and that is that that is I think I'm missing over the will is not really a thing. Yes.
 Becomes a thing becomes a thing with Saint Augustine. That's part of a story that's coming a little bit later right now. We're going to concentrate on the first house roughly of book one of the effects beginning with the general principles and then General kind of method to Canvas other people's use the elephant the rooms for the speakers Plato.
 So when it comes to general principles, we have of organized into roughly his discussion that there's a relationship between politics and ethics and then there's some discussion about the relationship between enzyme goods and finally the method in Publix in ethics. Aristotle was not operating in a vacuum. This has been more or less. How can I say invented Discovery Well presented anyway and Plato Republic book 3 with the city and so phonology the storyline or is this that they're trying to find justices and and they're looking at individual people and Socrates the saying man so hard to say
 It's a story and that's how you get the analogy between the sole of the city cuz now you can see similar things going on in the city.
 Is that they start?
 With the stink of a joule self bfx.
 And then there's a gigantic political detour.
 But at the end you come back to the individual soul, and it's not Eternal Destiny, but something close to its Destiny after.
 A literary point of view the Republic I don't I think it involves politics actually a gigantic detour. This is reason for it, but the book ends are ethical. It's about individual welfare not social welfare.
 That part has been set by Play-Doh.
 Aristotle accepted in some ways between exit at the beginning
 And then there's all these ethical stuff.
 If you look at the very end the very end, but now let's get back to politics.
 Call the section in in Aristotle. Here are the bookends ethics is the detour from a political discussion.
 So when comes to contacts?
 We could easily see this that for Aristotle the the context is much more social and political than it is for Plato Plato's about the individual.
 Aristotle about the group
 people naturally selfish
 I don't really think that even though his so all is complex and sense of the city is complex.
 The most important part of the soul is the intellect.
 Nissan parts
 Aristotle thinks that too
 They're naturally social naturally political.
 But the most important part Plato has it right? It is the mind.
 It's just that Aristotle is reaching out to a lot wider swath of humanities and Play-Doh ever cared about female seeing other people kind of an obstacle.
 Interact with them as little as possible because they're going to distract you from from your primary mission in life, which is I'll say it to escape and never come back.
 That's The Reincarnation thing reincarnation help not a reward it's a pimply why cuz life is bad there's something wrong with life there's Plato
 Aristotle cross medical doctor
 life is what it's all about.
 Aristotle does not have the attitude towards license plate of every day.
 There are the reasons for but I don't want to say too much about that right now.
 Okay, so let's go onto the relationship between enzyme cuts.
 This one is going to be a little bit more complicated. So, you know, it's a good thing that we have the song recorded so you can have a better sense to actually apprehended.
 It might not be a bad idea incidentally to do listen that you read and interact with the text and I don't just take my work stuff meant to be is meant to be a description descriptive exclamation occasionally.
 So here we have an argument set up with two premises and a sew in the kitchen.
 Look an argument this way.
 Aristotle says the intrinsic highest happiness
 because everybody saying trying to get that why you think that we can formulate?
 Wife is supposed to highest happiness.
 The intrinsic good. Why not? Well, okay. We see I'm talking about instruments.
 Battle helps a little bit to know what you would not from reading the stuff.
 There's a difference between instrumental value and intrinsic value.
 If instrumental value is all about something which is good because of what it does.
 so for instance
 call use what I have to have an artist do I am using technology in order to do something?
 Rachel Minnick real-life interaction in person
 What are some things that need to be fixed?
 The point is that the computer.
 And all the software and everything like that. It's all instrument. It's not good because of what it is. It's good because of what I allowed you to do what you can get.
 Headphones really useful for listening other people or is it turns out the new computers that you don't even I don't have a headphone microphone and everything and I don't get that crazy feedback things that I do and the other one so somebody's figured out how to do that. That's cool in life that we have invented.
 because when I get something done
 what I was in class, I would have the same kind of slides up there on the screen and I would have a little pointer a little thing. Well, that's kind of cool because then I can point from 50 feet away and I don't have to stand it right by the computer if nobody ever wanted to be able to do that. There would be no such tools.
 In fact, there are tools.
 For this for that for something else is enough of an Evidence.
 But there is some kind of need or desire to make something easier and that you can do this by using this tool rather than something else. That's the idea.
 So we distinguish between things that are good because of what they do or what you can do with them.
 I'm one hats all the instruments stuff and then there are things that are good because of
 That's the engines are good.
 So It Isn't So if you look at their the engines a good wee happiness because of what it is to sign up for this course, okay cuz you wanted a credit in humanities
 Different one. Maybe this is too hard. I'm just kidding you. Alright see you here in this course because you want to have a credit and if somebody graduating actually, okay, why you want that? Cuz I want to get a job. Why do you want that money? Why you want that? Cuz I want to buy a boat. Why do you want that because you make me happy all imagine. Somebody said, okay, but why do you want to be happy? What's the matter with you? Why do you want to be happy lost their minds who doesn't want to be happy. That's what you would ask us a person who said yes, but what's the reason for wanting to be happy? Everybody wants to be happy and they don't want to because of what you can get because of that. I want to be happy because it feels better. That's not why
 It was happy and feeling better are not the same thing will see that momentarily.
 I want to be happy.
 Different ideas about happiness I get that.
 The different ideas of Happiness go along with different kinds of people.
 Everybody's the same in very broad terms of already skin.
 Maybe it's a good thing that most people aren't they have other people look after life cuz you're busy thinking to to do that kind of stuff for the value something which is good because just because of what it is.
 now if you think about the relationship between instrument and what their instruments for
 I have different kinds of value.
 What's the first Primus the value of the instrument is exhausted by what you can get by that look on a wire Wireless mice? Okay, I can put on a piece of paper.
 If I won my paper not to blow around because of the window being open. Of course, I can do that.
 paper weights so that my paper would blow away cuz when I wouldn't get pick one of these
 never get a stone or something.
 Dreamlink Adventure we can make it a little bit to do something.
 What is an do that same thing on a much simpler tool?
 So the point of the instrument the value of the instrument is exhausted really by what you can get from it. And when we're talking about what is a team by that answer was talking about any possible thing that you could get buy it. For instance this wireless mouse and a paperweight. Yes. It's possible to use a wireless mouse as a paperweight wireless mouse.
 Why would you do that know if you want the thing if you want to be able to he don't have a mouse in your hand because it's easier than this little touch pad and your don't want wires cuz you and wires don't get along. Well now if enough people are like that somebody's been invented.
 end
 the point is that's why there are those instruments.
 So it's the best that you can get with these things any old thing that you could get with them. That's what the first premise means.
 You think about instrumental value? I just gave example where instrumental value can't keep on going.
 Kant going to Infinity is the way you'll put it he's got a real problem with it.
 And it's kind of easy to say what the problem is infinity cannot be understood.
 Doesn't mean it can't be sad sad everybody talk about it. So I just can't understand that. You don't know what on Earth you actually have a mind cuz whatever you have in mind is precisely this more than whatever you had in mind.
 So you can't ever get done.
 Cuz I was more than that.
 And that's the point you never get done.
 I was sick a little bit more about what is this?
 Infinity is not definite.
 Infinity isn't in definite. It's just it's on doable.
 Rationality is doable what I mean by that is something very close to this.
 Concepts are precise.
 If you're not precise you're going to make mistakes.
 definitions describe Concepts
 so somebody said that what you go and collect all the German Shepherds dogs.
 And you didn't have a very good idea of a German shepherd and track your idea of a German Shepherd including things like Beagles or some other kind of dog. Then when you went out to the neighborhood it come back with something that weren't German Shepherds you will I made a mistake.
 Somebody might say well, look. It's a beagle not a German Shepherd. That is the Precision of a of a concept that actually and I was going to work but that's a test. Does it work ever come back with things that you weren't supposed to come back with her collect things that you were not did you collect more things in your ass to collect?
 Definitions work like that. They work like instructions for for for what belongs in in the group and what doesn't belong
 Infinity is something that is absolutely not like that. It cannot be understood.
 the point about rationality those this if you understand
 you understand something definite.
 so
 assassin is now because it definitely goes with the concept. Does anyone understand what Infinity actually means? Well Infinity is a number kind of word how many years that the answer is this more than you could ever say you can't ever get done you can never say how big is infinity.
 There's no answer to that.
 Cuz not a definite concept.
 It's a relational concept. It's the opposite of finite.
 That's what it is.
 So how you thinking about opposites G. What's the opposite?
 It's the only way I understand everything is what is definite?
 Adopting there's no way I could understand that. So my phone here is this has a real problem with infinity argument during a girl.
 The question is can can you have that go on to Infiniti? His answer is no way.
 So you can't talk like this. It means I can't really be like that.
 All the instruments end up with something that they are instruments for.
 That thing is on another instrument.
 So what's the thing? Everybody's aiming at what's the thing that is the real value because of what it is.
 What you going to talk real value now? You have to have something that everybody would sign up for.
 Nobody's going to say I like to be unhappy. No, you don't nobody likes to be unhappy. Nobody likes to be miserable. Nobody likes to be depressed. They can't help it maybe but I don't like it.
 Everybody likes being happy, even if they have different ideas about what exactly happened. This is.
 so there's the argument there is something which is a high school and that's what everybody will agree on at least something positive the people like
 In very general terms some people like things that are in motion and changing other people don't like things that are in motion changing things that are stable and solid.
 What's similar about these people? You know, they're very very difference is that they're attracted to a thing that matches something in themselves?
 That match will be the cause of the speak other positive State of Mind.
 that match
 will be the same for everybody even though the things that are matched will be different from person to person.
 Rasheeda's in kind of Lies but I want to say something here about why instrumental value can't go on to Infinity. I mentioned to send in very general terms already about tools are all about doing things. But if you can read this interest on yourself being has priority over all doing
 Priority, what does that mean?
 He's a bunch of different things in different contexts, you know about priorities chronologically.
 Chronological priority priority though only about time there's different sorts of priority and I will give you one example this way.
 This is about to the forms of Play-Doh and Play-Doh. But like I said without Play-Doh you do not have Aristotle.
 Ethics the forms, but he is going to just going to do something that is going to transform them so that they work with his own system here is or what it means that being all things that are doing being is thought of as static.
 As changeless doing is all about action.
 So one of the things that means in the context of Plato's forms, is this and this is what I what are Aristotle's talking about.
 Something can exist without doing something.
 I can't do something on this Earth exists.
 Let me make you an example of a relation example from from Plato when you look at yourself in the mirror. You see yourself in the mirror, which is she is.
 Image of yourself a reflection of yourself. Reflection is a real reflection. I get it. Everybody gets that but it's not really you.
 That reflection wouldn't exist. Unless you were standing in front of the mirror.
 Just cuz you're standing in the mirror at night no lights on show it shows that some things depend in their existence upon other things the reflection depends on a physical original easy example
 So when we asked about things that are busy doing things active and things just exist.
 Is it possible for something to exist about doing anything Aristotle does not a real model for other people but something to make people good. No, cuz making people go to doing something and you didn't do anything.
 Know that will show as far as players concerned something can exist without doing anything at all.
 But there is no way that I could do something if it didn't even exist no way.
 So there's a kind of priority in innocence that we think about is a fancy word is ontologically but you've seen the word metaphysically before its. Causes.
 In fact depends on the cars are you'll say what our cause is not a cause and effect 2 that's something can exist with even if it doesn't do something.
 But if it's doing something it has to exist.
 That's $0.01 the other senses this and this is just now shows in the argument.
 Aristotle like I was saying so I thought there's no way Infinity could be understood the basic idea. Is that rationality operation definite units.
 That he says is unlike.
 The case was happiness in being he thinks those things can be understood.
 But now you can kind of figure out how. It supposed to work happiness and being will be related to rationality. And so at the sense in which they are related to rationality is this
 owner of the indefinite died at the moon has more than one.
 That's the tailgate Life's a combination of those things that detail doesn't matter. What does matter?
 That's another word for definite. Nothing left out. So there are people who think about happiness.
 I don't really understand it because the thing that they have in mind is happiness.
 It's not something rational.
 Are we more like an offense but nothing
 concentric time activities for instance
 Those things are not units that we think of them as you are. Not really units are processes.
 Show in aerosol on this is us directly from Plato.
 If reality is unitary, that's the fundamental thing like that a equals anything else that just put up there a little while ago.
 If that's the truth about things.
 there
 that's a single thing right there. Whatever it is it is whatever it is.
 Now that's a rational thing and it's a principal reason it is.
 Then it's happiness and being go along with that sort of stuff then.
 You could understand happiness provider that you understood it. Rationally. You can understand being provided that you understood it rationally.
 So what do you do with people who who have an idea of happiness? But let me have somebody about pleasure for sure, but not really happiness. He will say why not because happiness is something stable.
 Something that lasts a long time it's not something that that comes and goes and you have no control over that.
 Golf cart needs to needs to say more about it. Anyway, we're just getting started here. And this is the beginning of book 1.
 How do you thinks that happiness and being can be understood that the only way for them to be understood for them to be definite?
 So now we can ask and we will ask will demand Aristotle. What is so definite about happiness.
 Because doing it's not definite doing his own process.
 Some people who think about happiness as a process.
 What's wrong? If the truth is the happiness goes along with being rather than doing?
 That's the argument anyway, so if being has a priority over all that stuff.
 then if your happiness is associated with being
 it's going to be Marshall. We say more truly happiness better happiness more real.
 banana considered associated with activity
 I said idea on to something about the background of forms and particulars. None of this stuff is easy, and we're not going to do the whole thing here.
 Plato is the
 is the Thinker there been lots of people who shot X
 when are the people who say things because I thought long and hard about them. Well Plato comes to mind What did Plato say about goodness in life? He has this thing called the farm looks like that's a that's a big deal.
 What's in order to approach all that lifting somebody about wind supposed to do things like forms anyway.
 That's what this particular slide is about.
 Cuz Aristotle doesn't think that there are such forms truth overrides friendship pieces.
 I like you a lot. Later.
 I disagree.
 Okay, so yes, we will see what those reasons are next time right now.
 One of these East ways to get to this idea.
 Is to realize that we talked about friends and beauty in different ways. We apply two different things.
 You yourself will think that some poems are beautiful and others aren't.
 Some sunsets are beautiful and some are ho-hum.
 Here's the point of what?
 But yeah, I really think it's beautiful.
 Or gorgeous you picked on matter.
 You really think so beautiful sunset. Yeah.
 How's that possible you'll say and you'll say what is that possible?
 How can there be two different kinds of things that are both beautiful
 How's that possible? Think about this? How can there be different kinds of things that are the same?
 Well, you'll say that you lie the same.
 Okay, so he's corn. Are you just in the same sort of way and Socrates of corn are you? Okay? So what is this? Well, it looks like an adjectives or not really thinking like that. You know that's really is beautiful. I think so.
 You may disagree that what I think is a beautiful sunset is not.
 None of that is relevant. What is relevant is that you yourself think that's a gorgeous sunset. That's how's it possible for it to be different kinds of things.
 That are in any sense at all the same.
 Cheer the census to both beautiful. How's that possible?
 Unless his best guess you got a better guess you go. Tell Plato it the better guesses. Here's what he thinks there must be something like you.
 Which applies somehow to a pole that applies in different way obviously was sunset. What is the same thing that applies in different ways?
 So what is this beauty whatever it is to be beautiful?
 You say yes to being beautiful poems different for being a beautiful sunset. Yes, everybody knows that of course, but they're not completely different. They're both beautiful.
 You should look beautiful in different ways. You're still missing the point.
 You're not beautiful in completely different ways.
 Whatever way they're the same. They're both really beautiful as far as you're concerned.
 I love it makes me feel terrific whatever. However you explicate this thing.
 You will apply the idea of beauty to a poem and it will apply the same idea Beauty to a sunset idea.
 Now you see the kind of inductive argument going on here. How could they are beautiful beautiful beautiful beautiful things?
 So now I don't ask me how I mean, that's it. That's a hard question. How on Earth is a poem having a beauty come to a pole with me come to us. I don't know that's hard. It's hard to talk about stuff about. Well, that's not exactly true. Plus it's flossers care about it. And I think other people with him, we're just really trying to understand how things are.
 Show me the different kinds of singers.
 Or you pick whatever we're doing good.
 equal there better example
 2 plus 3 equals 5. Yes. Well so does 1 + 4
 These different numbers that are both exactly equal to each other.
 Can I see the date that the attraction of mathematical examples people might have disagreements about a beautiful poem do something. They will not disagree about beautiful.
 So here it we're thinking about forms and why anyone would suppose that there are such things?
 The general answer is because there are things that are not just similar but different.
 Beautiful similar and different but they're similar in different places.
 a different times
 How's that possible?
 But something could be beautiful last week.
 But you were looking at Sunset and beautiful yesterday when you heard that phone.
 How does all that work for the question? It's really hard.
 Sing about getting two forms is we have to have them in order to explain not just how it is. We understand stuff but we do understand understand some sunsets are some cones. Are they hurt your ears?
 None of that is relevant. What is relevant is that we got different kinds of things, but they're exactly the same.
 in at least one way
 they're beautiful.
 Okay, so next question.
 Sunsets come and go don't they?
 Thomas begin and end
 Does Beauty begin and end?
 Well now.
 Just like five.
 begin
 Always he is whatever it is to be 5.
 easier examples one
 cuz I'm beginning to that.
 There never was a time when one was not one when it was not five.
 It's not just true. It's necessarily true. So here's the thing about these different applications of beauty ideas.
 Song idea of you if I needed you may think about it that way but played well beyond ideas.
 Beauty is real.
 Truck is more real than beautiful poems and beautiful sunsets. Why is it more real for one thing? It's the same thing that is expressed in different ways and portents and sunsets.
 It is the same design that is expressed in different kinds of beautiful poems, and I just want you to put on this beautiful.
 And different episodes of beautiful sunsets beauty is inexhaustible. That way sunsets come and go.
 I heard the metaphysical principle.
 What do you think about things have changed all the action that doing that stuff compared to things that belong in the room called being is what it what it is versus what does beauty is beautiful and so on.
 Compare it like that.
 things that change
 are less good.
 Some things that don't change.
 Forms don't change at all.
 Solar Supply. Just killed it back to the example German Shepherds
 the making of non evolutionary point of your ear
 German Shepherd mean animals one day and a different set of animals the other animals represent the populations concept of the same number. That is it the same ones then application will be exactly the same. So there is something that changes in something that doesn't change.
 It works like this just take the example of the German Shepherds and one of them died.
 Exercise all the time and someone else was born the same number.
 Show me what's the saying about the group members?
 the identities of the members of our Birds changed
 so there is a kind of stability at the macro level.
 Leather, isn't that the microphone?
 Another kind of example that I can use that sucks having to do with bodies. I am told that I would all except this because I don't want to argue that that's replaced at least once every 7 years.
 No, I bet you some of you are more than 21 years old and that would mean that you the body you started with is not the body you have now every single cell is different from the one you started with.
 Text of the same body.
 same body
 I'll send possible unless it was something that made it the same.
 But the point is this whatever makes it the same as not something that changes cuz as soon as whatever made of the same with change it would be something different.
 I stole your body.
 the skinny thing the Forum
 Black German Shepherds dogs cats on the kind to group the sort the type.
 Outlast any number of individuals
 That's the point.
 Physical like is this but whatever does he have lasting is superior to whatever its outlasted.
 And so you can down to the next step without much trouble that would mean that whatever is perfect would never ever change whatever is real would never ever change cuz they only way that I could change is to become unreal. What is that nothing?
 Unreal, that's the word.
 Kant think
 without real ID has the mean you can't talk I can talk.
 Is thinking you're actually thinking it's cuz you have something definite in mind those concepts are the things that are stable you apply the concepts to various things to make sense of your lives to make sense of your surroundings. That's what these forms to so we have them to explain how things make sense to us because we are is perfectly clear stuff makes sense. Yes. It doesn't get more obvious than that other questions. Okay. So what can you do with that house that help when it comes to ethics or here's the thing I was saying before the play is going to try to squeeze a sex out of mathematics what that's going to mean. Is that a more unified something is the better it is.
 That's what it means.
 Beautiful sunset that last the whole time of the sunset the whole hour. Let's say
 is more beautiful sunsets in the beautiful sunset by the lasso made for you know, 5 minutes out of an hour.
 Kant last longer essay idea
 the general point though. Is that the kind of thing?
 Carswell Sheila for the particulars correspond to the things that come and go
 Now that's the idea. That's how you get forms. It's not just a possible for there to be different kinds of beautiful things.
 So this form of the good as puts it in the Republic is the cause of the existence and the intelligibility.
 everything which exists and is intelligible applies to ethics this way and we'll see more about this a little bit later on but for the time being this way that the form of the exactly
 from which it follows that things I have Parts like people bodies and souls are going to be better the more
 Borehole Erica more unified they are they can actually become of unity because of body in the Solar different kinds of Tanks Still the One They cooperate the more they function as a unit now take that idea and say, okay. So people who got their emotions in control and their own control are they generally happier people than people who don't have their emotions under their own control. Hell, yes.
 their way happier
 one thing they don't have to go and apologize to everybody for getting mad and ruining stuff cuz I don't do that anymore.
 why not because they're rational
 that's the point.
 Last item in ethics as well here we have the distinction drawn was in the category of something.
 I notice things that are always the case that have no exceptions at all versus things that have some exceptions, but there usually is
 Logic and physics logic much easier for us to understand that there's no exceptions whatsoever. There is a Greek word there on Onkyo is relation to necessary. There's just no way around it these things if you think about that in terms of your habits of that sort.
 We can talk here about nature, you know, your kinetic gatorzone.com stuff.
 But it doesn't it doesn't absolutely guarantee certain kinds of things.
 Compare that was for instance, especially deductive logic. No, no use as an example where one of the premises goes like either P or Q is true, but he isn't well then you'll say I'm okay. I know what comes next BenQ is.
 That's what it means in introductory Logic for something to follow that is one of those principles of logic that has no exceptions whatsoever. And that's why we think about that stuff.
 A logic a logic friend since there's no exceptions ever and that means if there is there is an exception mistake.
 Which is why when he's appealing to things like Infinities and absurdities. This is all intended to show a mistake exception here to the logic. So of course, it can't work at this point. Now when you compare ethics to that, well you're doing with people.
 And while he doesn't have the you know that the scientific sophistication people will have children and raise children similar to themselves.
 Jessica. You saw that he was biologically inclined cuz his dad was a doctor in other words. That's a huge influence of the environment. That's something that
 it happens a lot in order to look at you girl playing with whatever whatever tools are there yourself now is that all speakers love each other because of their bacon they have a child and just can't stand baking. I don't want to bake. I want to be a know what firefighter
 Does that ever happen of course?
 Plato City in Soul analogy, he has a story about that usually Golden Bear.
 You'll see that coming it's exception. But that's the point to see it's the exception not the rule.
 So when we think about the naturalness is a something which is usually for the most part. It's not guaranteed there. We have a discussion about other videos of the good none of which is particularly convincing because they're not considered news by the wise
 There is a some remarks about owls are good examples of the three kinds of lives people think about pleasure and happiness in different ways, depending on whether or not they live action. When is there lots of dominating my feelings?
 Not surprising that okay. Play-Doh says I find gas, but it was wrong because there weren't any forms and that's the thing. I was saying before truth overrides friendship.
 Here's Play-Doh you if you know the good you'll do the good.
 It's that powerful stuff knowledge is really transformative stuff for Play-Doh.
 But when Plato thinks about knowing but he hasn't money. You know what it is to be good. He's he's articulating all this stuff like that. It's pretty unlikely. I think that's that many people in the world your friends that say maybe even you are going to think about as an example of unity.
 Real thinkers. Mike iconic thinkers will but he was Aristotle's Point plans, right?
 Don't nobody is going to be good.
 What play was talking about? It's like perfect.
 And while being completely unified might be perfect.
 Ask yourself how many people and make themselves completely in a fire?
 Lyrics you that doesn't mean that you can't make yourself more or less unified but play No One Grand Theft people.
 real goodness reserves for the floss
 Aristotle wants more room.
 Because well, let's go back to the beginning. He is much more socially minded than Plato ever was.
 Plato looks at other people. It's kind of an obstacle to his own.
 release show aside from life
 Aristotle is plugged in.
 Aristotle wants room for other people
 as I think about it every just Willis things that strikes me is maybe this explains something.
 I don't never went home.
 To anyone who said Daddy I missed you.
 Plato never had any children
 Okay, you never had any kids this way also explain something about why he thought something was wrong with life.
 Cuz there he was.
 not attracted to women
 What's wrong with this picture? Something's wrong with it?
 Because men are attracted to women.
 Can I have kids?
 Something's wrong with him.
 That's what he was thinking.
 Aristotle never had that Aristotle came home to kids who said Daddy or whatever they said.
 twenty-something Aristotle family
 But on some children cuz my family needs me here.
 Toshiba 4 year old
 Shameless plug you into the world in ways that are unimaginable.
 As long as you're just looking at somebody else's family.
 children who depend on you change everything
 people who have they know.
 People who don't have it. They don't know.
 So you talkin about knowledge in relation to experience?
 What's your experience?
 both players experience
 Is UPS or disconnection from life and Aristotle's experience is immersion in life?
 now you start to see some of the reason for
 the primarily ethical orientation of the Republic and the primarily political orientation of Aristotle's ethics. When is personal social?
 That's a huge difference.
 So now it's one thing to say while I have a family played a dozen. So what does he know what he's talking about?
 Yes, I know are so this better reasons than that.
 Why are there no forms? Why aren't there any forms?
 Here's our salts answer. We'll see what's more next time.
 Because they're impossible.
 Plato didn't think it was possible.
 Aristotle knows the Plato didn't think are impossible but they are a possible and that's why even though we're friends.
 The truth matters more than our friendship. I will not sacrifice the truth to you.
 How do you know what's true? What would if I have my reasons? Can you prove it? Yes.
 I will see him do that next time.
 Forms are impossible Rochester unlikely, but impossible.
 baton
 great gas
 But it's not right away. It means we'll see what we can do with that, too.
 tweaker
 So that will work.
 That's what it was. What does with the platonic idea of a form?

-------------------------------------
